`stringops`: String-processing Tools for R
==========================================

When creating syntax, one has to ask themselves about the naming scheme:
should I make the functions short for typing efficiency, or long for
increased readability? Ruby has the former benefit, but sometimes the
methods can be difficult to remember (e.g. is it `len` or `length`? Is
it `swapcase` or `swap_case`?), as there isn’t a consistent naming
scheme–however, some functions have synonyms to help those from other
programming languages learn Ruby faster (e.g. `reduce` and `inject` do
the same thing). On the other hand, the `stringr` library has a
consisent naming scheme for its functions, but does not have synonyms,
so you are forced to learn the `stringr` way. Thirdly, and perhaps
tagentially, R does not have concatenation operator (only functions)
like in Ruby and BASIC, which is odd, as many situations require
concatenation; so using the `paste/paste0()` functions can make code
less readable. As such, I am introducing a new package to take these
considerations into account: `stringops`, a work-in-progress library
consisting of tools for processing strings in R.

What this package brings are (1) a consistent naming-scheme for
functions, (2) synonyms for said functions, and (3) a concatenation
operator. The first item benefits users of all skill levels, as it makes
certain functions easier to remember while making use of RStudio’s
predictive text. The second item is useful when one tires of typing
`string_cull()`, for example, and wishes to use a shorthand to simplify
the code (in this case, the shorthand would be `cull()`). The third
item’s benefit is more readable code by avoiding the function syntax of
`paste/paste0()`. Ultimately, these items will hopefully make processing
strings in R more fun for the user!

The following sections detail the installation procedure and a sample of
functions from this package. Please see the
[Gitbook](https://rs-stringops.netlify.app/) for more information.

Installation
============

This package currently is only available on GitHub–there are no plans to
submit this package to CRAN at this time. As such, please use the
`devtools` library to install `stringops`.

``` r
# install.packages('devtools')

devtools::install_github('robertschnitman/stringops')
```

``` r
library(stringops)
```

    ## 
    ## Attaching package: 'stringops'

    ## The following object is masked from 'package:utils':
    ## 
    ##     find

`%&%`
=====

As inspired by
[AutoIt](https://www.autoitscript.com/autoit3/docs/intro/lang_operators.htm),
the `%&%` (concatenation) operator joins two strings together. This
operator facilitates readable code by avoiding the function syntax of
the `paste/paste0()`.

``` r
'a' %&% 'b'
```

    ## [1] "ab"

``` r
"Car: " %&% rownames(mtcars)
```

    ##  [1] "Car: Mazda RX4"           "Car: Mazda RX4 Wag"      
    ##  [3] "Car: Datsun 710"          "Car: Hornet 4 Drive"     
    ##  [5] "Car: Hornet Sportabout"   "Car: Valiant"            
    ##  [7] "Car: Duster 360"          "Car: Merc 240D"          
    ##  [9] "Car: Merc 230"            "Car: Merc 280"           
    ## [11] "Car: Merc 280C"           "Car: Merc 450SE"         
    ## [13] "Car: Merc 450SL"          "Car: Merc 450SLC"        
    ## [15] "Car: Cadillac Fleetwood"  "Car: Lincoln Continental"
    ## [17] "Car: Chrysler Imperial"   "Car: Fiat 128"           
    ## [19] "Car: Honda Civic"         "Car: Toyota Corolla"     
    ## [21] "Car: Toyota Corona"       "Car: Dodge Challenger"   
    ## [23] "Car: AMC Javelin"         "Car: Camaro Z28"         
    ## [25] "Car: Pontiac Firebird"    "Car: Fiat X1-9"          
    ## [27] "Car: Porsche 914-2"       "Car: Lotus Europa"       
    ## [29] "Car: Ford Pantera L"      "Car: Ferrari Dino"       
    ## [31] "Car: Maserati Bora"       "Car: Volvo 142E"

`string_cull`()
===============

As inspired by Ruby, the function `string_cull()` culls (or extracts)
pattern matches from strings–if a pattern is not found, then `NA` is
returned. The synonyms for this function are `s_cull()`, `cull()`,
`string_extract()`, `s_extract()`, and `extract()`.

``` r
# extract beginning "M" from each element.
string_cull(rownames(mtcars), '^M')
```

    ##  [1] "M" "M" NA  NA  NA  NA  NA  "M" "M" "M" "M" "M" "M" "M" NA  NA  NA  NA  NA 
    ## [20] NA  NA  NA  NA  NA  NA  NA  NA  NA  NA  NA  "M" NA

``` r
# extract elements in full that begin with "M".
string_cull(rownames(mtcars), "^M.*")
```

    ##  [1] "Mazda RX4"     "Mazda RX4 Wag" NA              NA             
    ##  [5] NA              NA              NA              "Merc 240D"    
    ##  [9] "Merc 230"      "Merc 280"      "Merc 280C"     "Merc 450SE"   
    ## [13] "Merc 450SL"    "Merc 450SLC"   NA              NA             
    ## [17] NA              NA              NA              NA             
    ## [21] NA              NA              NA              NA             
    ## [25] NA              NA              NA              NA             
    ## [29] NA              NA              "Maserati Bora" NA

`string_find()`
===============

The function `string_find()` acts similar to
`grep(string, x, value = TRUE)`: it subsets a vector to found pattern
matches, returning the full element. The synonyms for this function are
`s_find()`, and `find()`.

``` r
string_find(rownames(mtcars), '^M')
```

    ##  [1] "Mazda RX4"     "Mazda RX4 Wag" "Merc 240D"     "Merc 230"     
    ##  [5] "Merc 280"      "Merc 280C"     "Merc 450SE"    "Merc 450SL"   
    ##  [9] "Merc 450SLC"   "Maserati Bora"
